Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A programming language is a language used to write a set of instructions
that help a computer to perform tasks.



What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
JDK stands for Java Development Kit and it is composed of JRE Java Runtime Environment
compiler which converts human-readable code to machine-readable code,
JVM Java Virtual Machine


What is IDE?
Integrated Development Environment is a software application that enables users to write and debug Java programs more easily.
Most IDEs have features such as syntax highlighting and code completion that helps users to code more easily.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
IntelliJ
Eclipse
NetBeans
JDeveloper


Explain the entire java life cycle.
There are three main stages:
Editing the program
Compiling the source code
Executing the byte code


what is class?
A class is a blueprint that defines the variables and the methods common to all objects of a certain kind.



What is object?
Object is an instance of a class
We can also say that the object belongs to the class

What is the entry point of an application?
main method

Why main is static?
so that compiler can call it without the creation of an object,
main method is the starting point from where compiler starts program execution


Which class is the superclass of all classes?
The Object class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Path is used by the operating system to find the executables
Classpath is used by the Java compiler to find the path


What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
interface can be extended to another interface
to implement an interface we use the word implements
interface can have only abstract can not have implemented method
if you declare any variable in interface it will be final we can not change it again assign
by default the interface has public method
interface is slower in therm of memory

abstract class is hybrid class interface
can have abstract method and non abstract method
you can declare variable as normal method
in order to implemented we use the work extend
in memory abstract is faster*/


Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?


what is Access Specifier?
An access specifiers define how a method or a class can be accessed.
public, private, protected or default.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object Orientated Programming
-Abstraction is used
-Encapsulation is used as Data hiding
-Polymorphism Methods overloading Methods overriding
-Inheritance classes that are built upon existing classes

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A package in Java is used to group related classes. Think of it as a folder in a file directory.
We use packages to avoid name conflicts, and to write a better maintainable code
The package imported by default is java.lang


What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
API stands for Application Programming Interface an API delivers a user response to a system
and sends the system's response back to a user.
we used JAVA API


Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?



What is method overloading and when it happens?
If a class has multiple methods having same name but different parameters


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Answer:exceptions in java happens when the code is running, and something happens that interrupts the execution of the code.
so we can handle that by using a try catch block to catch the exceptions and manage it without stopping the code execution.


What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
whenever we defined a variable or a method as a static those variables or method we can access directly with the class name
anything is static belong to the class
static variables and methods are shared across all the object
static variables and methods can directly access through class name

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Final is non access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.
If we initialize a variable with the final keyword, then we cannot modify its value. If we declare a method as final,
then it cannot be overridden by any subclasses

What is final, finally and finalize?
Final is used with variables, methods, and classes to set access permissions
Finally is a block in Java used for Exception Handling
Finalize is a method in Java used for Garbage Collection

What is a constructor ?
is a block of code similar to method used to initialize the object

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
yes it is called constructor overloading

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
the default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java ?
is to eliminate the confusion between class attributes and parameters with the same name

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
The super keyword refers to superclass (parent) objects
It is used to call superclass methods, and to access the superclass constructor

What is JVM stand for ?
JAVA VIRTUAL MACHINE

is JVM platform independent?
non
What version of java are you using?
11.0.14
What is JAR stand for ?

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK is a software development kit
JVM is an environment for executing bytecode

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JRE is an environment, in order to execute any Java program locally
JVM is where it's responsible for converting the Bytecode into machine specific code

What is compile time and run time?
Compile time is when the program is compiled; runtime is when it executes

What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
In Java, memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects, called Memory management
Java does memory management automatically. Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?

What is Singleton class?
is object hiding

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes
The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization.


when to use transient variable in java?
When would you use a transient variable?
transient is a variables modifier used in serialization. At the time of serialization
if we don't want to save value of a particular variable in a file, then we use transient keyword

Difference between while and do..while loop?
While loop check the condition then executes the code
Do While loop execute the code then check the condition

What is Enum?

What is Iterator?
An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like
ArrayList and HashSet. It is called an "iterator" because "iterating" is the technical
term for looping. To use an Iterator, you must import it from the java. util package.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
int 4 byte
integer 16 byte

Why is String Immutable in Java?
he content of the String Object can't be change, once it is created. If you want to modify
the content then you can go for StringBuffer/StringBuilder instead of String.
StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object


The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
serial garbage collector uses a single thread for garbage collection process
while the parallel garbage collector uses multiple threads for the garbage collection


What is JIT stands for?
Just in Time


Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
The JVM runtime environment uses a large memory pool called the heap for object allocation.
The JVM automatically invokes garbage collections in order to clean up the heap of unreferenced or dead objects


Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
non

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
is that the stack is used to store the order of method execution and local variables while
the heap memory stores the objects and it uses dynamic memory allocation and deallocation


What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
DI is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside

what is multithreading in java?
It is the process of running two or more threads at the same time.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is Framework?
Frameworks are large bodies (usually many classes) of pre_written code to which
you add your own code to solve a problem in a specific domain.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
selenium, serenity, jUnit etc.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?

Both Testng and Junit are Testing framework used for Unit Testing. TestNG is similar to JUnit. Few more
functionalities are added to it that makes TestNG more powerful than JUnit.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Junit MongoDB MySQL

what is dependency injection in java?
Dependency injection (DI) is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve to bind
